---
published: true
layout: post
title: Purpose
tags:
  - About
  - Mom
  - Discover
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
I'll keep this simple and just label the feelings and talk about them. 
##Anger
I am very angry that I missed out on raising my kids how I would have wanted, with freedom, exploration, excitement, and curiosity.
Something as simple as a swimming lesson was blown out of proportion. I gave up my power a little bit every day that I stayed. <!--more-->
I am angry at myself for that. I am upset that I did not listen to Dr. L and get a divorce attorney years ago. There is too much baggage
now, I think. And he still doesn't understand the damage he did. It remains minimalized or trivialized or ignored.
I am angry at myself for trying so many things to be the perfect wife. Now that I understand the dynamic, that I truly WAS a fake
person, a fantasy person, an extension of him, I see how foolish all that was. Nothing would ever be good enough. It couldn't. I am
a real person, and every reminder of that would be a blow-up.

##Shame
This is right up there with anger. To tell people that we are separated is not an issue. That I left is not an issue. It is that 
I am so calm and do not let on how serious the hurt was. It was horrible. He assaulted my very being on a regular basis. He used
intimidation, guilt, and fear to manipulate. The words spoken to my children and harsh physical grabbing and restraining of Trudi
are especially troublesome to me. The episode with Trudi pushing Elvie and him overreacting and involving me was over the top. 
I cannot believe that I allowed myself to be drawn into that. He is a master manipulator.

##Apprehension
Back when Trudi was 1 going on 2, I recall an event when he grabbed her harshly upside down 'so she wouldn't head-butt him' and 
carried her to the basement to restrain and scold her, I told Trudi that night that I would do whatever it took to protect her.
While I knew that night that meant possibly leaving her father, it wasn't real until last summer that I would actually go through 
with it. The catalyst was how he treated them. It bothers me that they go there unsupervised with him on weekends now. Are the terrified?
How is this scarring them? They must think they have to be perfect. I am apprehensive that this could last. He wants them more, and I just
don't feel comfortable with it.
I am apprehensive that he even comprehends where we are. I don't know how else to say that reconciliation is not automatic. During 
our courtship I called him out on the future faking. He absolutely used the fact that I wanted kids to reel me in. He acted like he really 
wanted the family and big house. He took hostages.

##Relief
I am relieved that I am out of there. I feel better these days than I have in years. Years. Thinking back on our dating, there wasn't
truly a time that we were fully in harmony so it was the time of my life. I remember seeing him walking down the sidewalk downtown as I 
rode past on the bus. He looked so serious I didn't think that I wanted anything to do with that energy. I looked past it, though.
He told me on date four at Colectivo that he is Type A, oldest child, wants to get his way. I did not take that as 'I'm a control freak'.
I am relieved that the kids can see me here and experience no tension in the house. I am working on coming up with truly enriching activities
that bond us and expand their horizons. If I was there I would remain oppressed. I cannot do that.

##Bafflement
It is striking how many people say they hope we get back together. They think that is what I want. Calmness? Stability? I don't know.
It was an abusive relationship. I was being abused. They think I want to go back to that, or that I am over-reacting? It is bizarre.
It isn't that I care what they think of me, it is just revealing how well hidden it was. 
Miles and Saira stated that they recognized how upset I was on several visits, yet it wasn't a 'big picture is bad' type of thing. Saira said
she misses so much of who I am, and I already feel more like myself. I am reclaiming myself, not finding myself. The business idea I'm 
about to execute is 'Frischlife', which was born in 2010. I mean, now I have the confidence to launch it and nothing to lose.

##Amazement
I am amazed at how far down the scale I went staying at home with no intellectual stimulation. I re-read a couple emails from 2012, and I was
fluent in description, style, and intellect. It was like looking at a different person.

##My 5 Top Strengths
I took the strengths finder test on Saturday. The top 5 are in direct opposition to a relationship with him, as it was.
Strategist will come in handy, sure. 
Learner:  I devour information and see patterns, and I was told to stop reading, get off computer.
Achiever: I like to accomplish things, and I was told not even to cook, not to knit, just to watch TV!
Activator: I do things and start things and like activity, and I was trapped in the house, told to watch TV!
Individualization: I see people as individuals and was not allowed to be an individual or express myself!

##Social Tenacity
As I move through the course and do more vision and life planning, I do not see him in it. I don't know that I can trust whatever
change he thinks he has affected to be permanent. I don't want to live waiting for the event that makes me say 'We are out'.
I don't want to correct him or monitor his speech and behavior. Maybe this is why the couple date would be beneficial. I could just say
"I'm out" if it isn't working. A simple "Stop it." and leave. I don't know. Forming the dream life idea in my mind is more challenging
than I thought it would be. That is ok. Maybe part of the challenge is just acknowledging where I am and listening to that. 

I am envisioning the Rivian SUV instead of a minivan. I wanted a Suburban prior, and the electric SUV is hands-down my preference. Little things
like that. It is freeing. I feel free. I am making decisions that I know are good for me and the girls. I am taking this time to reconnect
with myself and grow. I am trusting the process in Social Tenacity to get where God destined me to go, show my girls strength, and mine it 
for myself as well.

##What I Need to Go Back
I need an epiphany and complete change of character from Matt. I need to see that he recognizes what abuse is, that he was
abusive, that he damaged us, and apologize from his heart, show remorse rather than regret. Yesterday I still felt like vomiting
when I returned home with the girls. It just isn't right. I don't want to feel sick. I would have to WANT to be with him for that
consideration to enter. He tries with minivan and houses and vacations, yet it is a manipulation. Hanging my photos in an office for 
myself, yet the new house 'would have to be something like this'. It is his style and his timeline. No. That won't work.
So I need nothing short of an act of God.
Al put it well. Matt lost my love, and he has to start from behind square one because now there is a lot of baggage that has to be cleared
along with fixing the actual issues. I want to move on. I want to be free. I want to be supported and built up. I never had that with him.
He 'tolerated' my AA, PhD, vegan eating. Instead of learning about any of it or my friends, he 'tolerated' it and was very happy when each 
fell away. I cannot allow any more pieces of me to be surrendered to someone else, to be disrespected, to be torn down as though I do
not matter. I want to move forward instead of learning 2M things about narcissists. If he actually has a diagnosis, great. It will help in
court or with the social workers. Otherwise, whatever. It CANNOT take something like me moving out for him to understand that the
problem was serious. My feelings matter. The children matter.

##Best Mom I Can Be
I am more present every day, learning the ins and outs of each kid. I want them to feel loved, significant, capable, and empowered.
They are beautiful, intelligent girls, and they deserve to see life as full of possibilities. I'm glad we don't have to think about
getting an animal at all due to allergies. Phew. 
